README.md, before:

# Cable Driven Parallel Robot 2D

![distro](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ubuntu%2024-Jammy%20Jellyfish-orange)
![distro](https://img.shields.io/badge/ROS2-Rolling-blue)
[![jazzy](https://github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d/actions/workflows/main.yaml)

Welcome! My name is [Alberto León Luengo](https://github.com/aleon2020), a Software Robotics Engineering student at Rey Juan Carlos University.

This GitHub repository contains all the materials I used to complete my Final Degree Project (FDP) within the [Intelligent Robotics Lab](https://github.com/IntelligentRoboticsLabs), all under the supervision of my professor / tutor, [Juan Sebastián Cely Gutiérrez](https://github.com/juanscelyg).

The main objective of this project is the design, construction, and commissioning of a functional prototype of a **Cable-Driven Parallel Robot (CDPR)** capable of controlling a suspended end-effector to perform trajectory planning tasks.

In addition, aspects such as kinematic modeling of the system, software development in multiple languages, integration with ROS2, and physical validation will be addressed.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d/blob/main/media/cable_driven_parallel_robot.png?raw=true">
</p>

---

## Features

- Management of a Cable Driven Parallel Robot using ROS2 and RViZ.
- Compatible with **ROS2 Rolling**.
- Implemented in **Python** with support for configuration via **ROS2 launch files**.
- Modular architecture:
  - **cdpr_2d/**: CDPR source code.
  - **config/**: RViZ configuration.
  - **description/**: CDPR model in URDF for RViZ.
  - **launch/**: Launch files.
  - **resource/**: Resource file.
  - **test/**: Test files.
  - **package.xml**: Package metadata.
  - **setup.cfg/**: Build configuration.
  - **setup.py/**: Build configuration.
- Built using **colcon**.

---

## Project Structure

```sh
src
├── cdpr_2d
│   ├── cdpr_controller.py
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── robot_controller.py
│   ├── version1_controller.py
│   ├── version2_controller.py
│   └── version3_controller.py
├── config
│   └── robot.rviz
├── description
│   ├── robot.xacro
│   └── urdf
│       └── robot.urdf
├── launch
│   └── robot_state_publisher.launch.py
├── package.xml
├── resource
│   └── cdpr_2d
├── setup.cfg
├── setup.py
└── test
│   ├── test_copyright.py
│   ├── test_flake8.py
│   └── test_pep257.py
docs
media
README.md
```

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **RViZ**.
- **ROS 2 Rolling**.
- **Python ≥ 3.12.3**.
- **colcon** for building.

### Steps

In this case, the repository is the equivalent of the **src/** directory of a workspace, so it would be necessary to create a new workspace from scratch.

```sh
# Cloning the workspace

mkdir <my_workspace>

cd <my_workspace>/

git clone https://<my_token>@github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d.git
```

```sh
# Repository name change

mv cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d src
```

```sh
# Compiling the workspace

cd <my_workspace>/

colcon build --symlink-install

source ~/<my_workspace>/install/setup.bash
```

**IMPORTANT**: Add your token exactly as shown. This is to avoid having to enter the token in the terminal every time you want to update the repository using the 'git pull' command.

If you've already cloned this repository, run the following command before starting to work with it, as new changes or modifications may have been added. This is to ensure you have cloned the most recent version of the repository:

```sh
git pull
```

---

## Usage

1. Run one of the following commands depending on the driver version you want to run:

```sh
# VERSION 1 (1 POINT)
ros2 run cdpr_2d version1_controller

# VERSION 2 (2 POINTS)
ros2 run cdpr_2d version2_controller

# VERSION 3 (3 OR MORE POINTS)
ros2 run cdpr_2d version3_controller

# FULL VERSION
ros2 run cdpr_2d cdpr_controller
```

2. Launch each of the topics to see data related to the end effector:

```sh
# Position (x,y) of the end effector
ros2 topic echo /effector_coordinates

# Cable lengths and angles with the vertical
ros2 topic echo /cable_parameters

# Elongated/retracted cable length and angle of rotation of each pulley
ros2 topic echo /pulley_parameters
```

3. Publish one of the following sets of commands messages in the corresponding topic to send the coordinates to which you want to move the end effector:

```sh
# VERSION 1
ros2 topic pub --once /version1 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"

# VERSION 2
ros2 topic pub --once /version2 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version2 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.7, y: 0.7, z: 0.0}}}"

# VERSION 3
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"

# FULL VERSION (VERSION 1)
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"

# FULL VERSION (VERSION 2)
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.7, y: 0.7, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"

# FULL VERSION (VERSION 3)
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"
```

**NOTE**: In version 3 and in all cases of the full version, the point (-1.0,-1.0) is published as a marker to let the controller know that no more points will be sent and therefore, it can start executing each case, always depending on the number of points (or messages of the geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped type that have been sent to it).

---

### References

[https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8920840](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8920840)

Commit message:

Adding author data in README

README.md, after:

# Cable Driven Parallel Robot 2D

![distro](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ubuntu%2024-Jammy%20Jellyfish-orange)
![distro](https://img.shields.io/badge/ROS2-Rolling-blue)
[![jazzy](https://github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d/actions/workflows/main.yaml)

This repository is part of a Final Degree Project (FDP / TFG) focused on the design, construction, and commissioning of a **Cable-Driven Parallel Robot (CDPR)** capable of controlling a suspended end-effector to perform trajectory planning and motion control tasks.

The project integrates topics such as **kinematic modeling**, **control algorithms**, **software development in Python**, and **integration with ROS2 Rolling**, providing a modular and scalable framework for experimentation with cable-driven robotic platforms.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d/blob/main/media/cable_driven_parallel_robot.png?raw=true">
</p>

---

## Features

- Management of a Cable Driven Parallel Robot using ROS2 and RViZ.
- Compatible with **ROS2 Rolling**.
- Implemented in **Python** with support for configuration via **ROS2 launch files**.
- Modular architecture:
  - **cdpr_2d/**: CDPR source code.
  - **config/**: RViZ configuration.
  - **description/**: CDPR model in URDF for RViZ.
  - **launch/**: Launch files.
  - **resource/**: Resource file.
  - **test/**: Test files.
  - **package.xml**: Package metadata.
  - **setup.cfg/**: Build configuration.
  - **setup.py/**: Build configuration.
- Built using **colcon**.

---

## Project Structure

```sh
src
├── cdpr_2d
│   ├── cdpr_controller.py
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── robot_controller.py
│   ├── version1_controller.py
│   ├── version2_controller.py
│   └── version3_controller.py
├── config
│   └── robot.rviz
├── description
│   ├── robot.xacro
│   └── urdf
│       └── robot.urdf
├── launch
│   └── robot_state_publisher.launch.py
├── package.xml
├── resource
│   └── cdpr_2d
├── setup.cfg
├── setup.py
└── test
│   ├── test_copyright.py
│   ├── test_flake8.py
│   └── test_pep257.py
docs
media
README.md
```

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **RViZ**.
- **ROS 2 Rolling**.
- **Python ≥ 3.12.3**.
- **colcon** for building.

### Steps

In this case, the repository is the equivalent of the **src/** directory of a workspace, so it would be necessary to create a new workspace from scratch.

```sh
# Cloning the workspace

mkdir <my_workspace>

cd <my_workspace>/

git clone https://<my_token>@github.com/aleon2020/cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d.git
```

```sh
# Repository name change

mv cable_driven_parallel_robot_2d src
```

```sh
# Compiling the workspace

cd <my_workspace>/

colcon build --symlink-install

source ~/<my_workspace>/install/setup.bash
```

**IMPORTANT**: Add your token exactly as shown. This is to avoid having to enter the token in the terminal every time you want to update the repository using the 'git pull' command.

If you've already cloned this repository, run the following command before starting to work with it, as new changes or modifications may have been added. This is to ensure you have cloned the most recent version of the repository:

```sh
git pull
```

---

## Usage

1. Run one of the following commands depending on the driver version you want to run:

```sh
# VERSION 1 (1 POINT)
ros2 run cdpr_2d version1_controller

# VERSION 2 (2 POINTS)
ros2 run cdpr_2d version2_controller

# VERSION 3 (3 OR MORE POINTS)
ros2 run cdpr_2d version3_controller

# FULL VERSION
ros2 run cdpr_2d cdpr_controller
```

2. Launch each of the topics to see data related to the end effector:

```sh
# Position (x,y) of the end effector
ros2 topic echo /effector_coordinates

# Cable lengths and angles with the vertical
ros2 topic echo /cable_parameters

# Elongated/retracted cable length and angle of rotation of each pulley
ros2 topic echo /pulley_parameters
```

3. Publish one of the following sets of commands messages in the corresponding topic to send the coordinates to which you want to move the end effector:

```sh
# VERSION 1
ros2 topic pub --once /version1 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"

# VERSION 2
ros2 topic pub --once /version2 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version2 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.7, y: 0.7, z: 0.0}}}"

# VERSION 3
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /version3 geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"

# FULL VERSION (VERSION 1)
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"

# FULL VERSION (VERSION 2)
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.3, y: 0.3, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.7, y: 0.7, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"

# FULL VERSION (VERSION 3)
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.8, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.8, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: 0.2, y: 0.2, z: 0.0}}}"
ros2 topic pub --once /cdpr geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped "{header: {frame_id: 'world'}, pose: {position: {x: -1.0, y: -1.0, z: 0.0}}}"
```

**NOTE**: In version 3 and in all cases of the full version, the point (-1.0,-1.0) is published as a marker to let the controller know that no more points will be sent and therefore, it can start executing each case, always depending on the number of points (or messages of the geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped type that have been sent to it).

---

### References

[https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8920840](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8920840)

---

### Author

**Alberto León Luengo**  
Software Robotics Engineering at **Rey Juan Carlos University**.  
Github: [aleon2020](https:/github.com/aleon2020)  
Developed under the supervision of [Professor Juan Sebastián Cely Gutiérrez](https://github.com/juanscely), within the [Intelligent Robotics Lab](https://github.com/IntelligentRoboticsLabs).
